h21536
s 00050/00000/00000
d D 1.1 00/10/16 17:06:25 staelin 2 1
cC
cF1
cK58436
cO-rw-rw-rw-
e
s 00000/00000/00000
d D 1.0 00/10/16 17:06:25 staelin 1 0
c BitKeeper file /tmp_mnt/usr/WebPaper/users/staelin/src/LMbench/doc/line.8
cBlm@lm.bitmover.com|ChangeSet|20000131225335|47351|--LMBENCH--
cHhpli8.hpli.hpl.hp.com
cK05221
cPdoc/line.8
cR2f04d89911039b4a
cV4
cX0xa1
cZ+02:00
e
u
U
f e 0
f x 0xa1
t
T
I 2
.\" $Id$
.TH LINE 8 "$Date$" "(c)2000 Carl Staelin and Larry McVoy" "LMBENCH"
.SH NAME
line \- cache line size
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tlb
[
.I "-M <len>"
]
[
.I "-W <warmups>"
]
[
.I "-N <repetitions>"
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B line
tries to determine the cache line size in bytes of the largest cache
which is smaller than
.I len
bytes.
.LP
.B line
creates pointer chains which access the first word on each cache line
on a page (randomly meandering through all the lines in a page before
jumping to the next page).  It measures the average memory latency
for a variety of line sizes, starting with a line size of one word.
When it finds an increase in the average latency that is significantly
larger than the latency for the smaller line size then it assumes that
it has found the line size.
.LP
This algorithm works because for line sizes less than the true line
size, at least two 
.B line
cache lines fit in the space of a true cache line.  Since that cache
line will be accessed twice, the first access will cause an expensive
cache miss, while the second access will be a cache hit.  Once the 
.B line
cache line is equal to the true cache line size, then all accesses
will cause cache misses.
.SH BUGS
.B line
is an experimental benchmark, but it seems to work well on most
systems.  
.SH "SEE ALSO"
lmbench(8), tlb(8), cache(8), par_mem(8).
.SH "AUTHOR"
Carl Staelin and Larry McVoy
.PP
Comments, suggestions, and bug reports are always welcome.
E 2
I 1
E 1
