h36528
s 00198/00052/00125
d D 1.2 00/10/16 17:13:51 staelin 3 2
c - Update man pages to match current status
cC
cHhpli8.hpli.hpl.hp.com
cK37408
cZ+02:00
e
s 00177/00000/00000
d D 1.1 98/05/07 16:00:13 staelin 2 1
c lmbench.3 created on 98/05/07 16:00:13 by staelin@hpisc8.lempel
cC
cK41018
cPdoc/lmbench.3
e
s 00000/00000/00000
d D 1.0 98/05/07 09:00:12 staelin 1 0
cBlm@lm.bitmover.com|ChangeSet|20000131225335|47351|--LMBENCH--
cHhpisc8.lempel
cK06676
cP/users/staelin/src/lmbench/doc/lmbench.3
cR59c0c51f7abc65bc
cV4
cX0x21
cZ-07:00
e
u
U
f e 0
f x 0x21
t
T
I 2
.\"
D 3
.\" @(#)lmbench.man	2.0 98/04/24
E 3
I 3
.\" @(#)lmbench.man	3.0 2000/10/12
E 3
.\"
.\"   lmbench - benchmarking toolbox
.\"
D 3
.\"   Copyright (C) 1998  Carl Staelin and Larry McVoy
E 3
I 3
.\"   Copyright (C) 1998-2000  Carl Staelin and Larry McVoy
E 3
.\"   E-mail: staelin@hpl.hp.com
.\"
D 3
.TH "LMBENCH" 3 "$Date:$" "(c)1998 Larry McVoy" "LMBENCH"

E 3
I 3
.TH "LMBENCH" 3 "$Date:$" "(c)1998-2000 Larry McVoy and Carl Staelin" "LMBENCH"
E 3
.SH "NAME"
lmbench \- benchmarking toolbox
D 3

E 3
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B "#include ``lmbench.h''"
.LP
D 3
.B "BENCH(loop_body, enough)"
E 3
I 3
.B "typedef u_long	iter_t"
.LP
.B "typedef (*bench_f)(iter_t iterations, void* cookie)"
.LP
.B "typedef (*support_f)(iter_t iterations, void* cookie)"
E 3
.LP
D 3
.B "BENCH1(loop_body, enough)"
E 3
I 3
.B "void	benchmp(support_f initialize, bench_f benchmark, support_f cleanup, int enough, int parallel, int warmup, int repetitions, void* cookie)"
E 3
.LP
.B "uint64	get_n()"
.LP
.B "void	milli(char *s, uint64 n)"
.LP
.B "void	micro(char *s, uint64 n)"
.LP
.B "void	nano(char *s, uint64 n)"
.lP
.B "void	mb(uint64 bytes)"
.LP
.B "void	kb(uint64 bytes)"
D 3

E 3
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Creating benchmarks using the 
.I lmbench 
timing harness is easy.
Since it is so easy to measure performance using 
.I lmbench , 
it is possible to quickly answer questions that arise during system
design, development, or tuning.  For example, image processing 
.LP
There are two attributes that are critical for performance, latency 
and bandwidth, and 
D 3
.I lmbench's 
E 3
I 3
.I lmbench\'s 
E 3
timing harness makes it easy to measure and report results for both.  
D 3
The measurement interface, 
.B BENCH 
and 
.BR BENCH1 , 
are identical, but the reporting functions are different.
E 3
Latency is usually important for frequently executed operations, and
bandwidth is usually important when moving large chunks of data.
.LP
There are a number of factors to consider when building benchmarks.
.LP
The timing harness requires that the benchmarked operation
be idempotent so that it can be repeated indefinitely.
.LP
D 3
The timing subsystem includes two macros, 
.B BENCH 
and 
.BR BENCH1 ,
which provide a uniform method for conducting experiments.  
.B BENCH1
does one experiment and saves the result, while 
.B BENCH 
does eleven
experiments and saves the median result.

E 3
I 3
The timing subsystem, 
.BR benchmp ,
is passed up to three function pointers.  Some benchmarks may
need as few as one function pointer (for
.IR benchmark ).
E 3
.TP
D 3
.B "BENCH(loop_body, enough)"
E 3
I 3
.B "void	benchmp(initialize, benchmark, cleanup, enough, parallel, warmup, repetitions, cookie)"
E 3
measures the performance of 
D 3
.I loop_body
repeatedly and report the median result.

E 3
I 3
.I benchmark
repeatedly and reports the median result.  
.I benchmp
creates
.I parallel
sub-processes which run
.I benchmark
in parallel.  This allows lmbench to measure the system's ability to
scale as the number of client processes increases.  Each sub-process
executes
.I initialize
before starting the benchmarking cycle.  It will call
.I benchmark
several times in order to collect
.I repetitions
results.  After all the benchmark results have been collected, 
.I cleanup
is called to cleanup any resources which may have been allocated
by 
.I initialize
or 
.IR benchmark .
.I cookie 
is a void pointer to a hunk of memory that can be used to store any
parameters or state that is needed by the benchmark.
E 3
.TP
D 3
.B "BENCH1(loop_body, enough)"
measures the performance of 
.I loop_body
once.

E 3
I 3
.B "void	benchmp_getstate()"
returns a void pointer to the lmbench-internal state used during 
benchmarking.  The state is not to be used or accessed directly
by clients, but rather would be passed into
.I benchmp_interval. 
.TP
.B "iter_t	benchmp_interval(void* state)"
returns the number of times the benchmark should execute its
benchmark loop during this timing interval.  This is used only
for weird benchmarks which cannot implement the benchmark
body in a function which can return, such as the page fault
handler.  Please see 
.I lat_sig.c 
for sample usage.
E 3
.TP
.B "uint64	get_n()"
returns the number of times 
.I loop_body
was executed during the timing interval.
D 3

E 3
.TP
.B "void	milli(char *s, uint64 n)"
print out the time per operation in milli-seconds.  
.I n 
is the number of operations during the timing interval, which is passed 
as a parameter because each
.I loop_body
can contain several operations.
D 3

E 3
.TP
.B "void	micro(char *s, uint64 n)"
print the time per opertaion in micro-seconds.
D 3

E 3
.TP
.B "void	nano(char *s, uint64 n)"
print the time per operation in nano-seconds.
D 3

E 3
.TP
.B "void	mb(uint64 bytes)"
print the bandwidth in megabytes per second.
D 3

E 3
.TP
.B "void	kb(uint64 bytes)"
print the bandwidth in kilobytes per second.
D 3

E 3
.SH "USING lmbench"
D 3

E 3
Here is an example of a simple benchmark that measures the latency
of the random number generator 
.BR lrand48() :
.IP
.B "#include ``lmbench.h''"
.br
I 3

.br
.B void
.br
.B benchmark_lrand48(iter_t iterations, void* cookie)
.B {
.br
.B "	while(iterations-- > 0)"
.br
.B "		lrand48();"
.br
.B }
.br

.br
E 3
.B int
.br
.B "main(int argc, char *argv[])"
.br
.B {
.br
D 3
.B "	BENCH(lrand48(), 0);"
E 3
I 3
.B "	benchmp(NULL, benchmark_lrand48, NULL, 0, 1, 0, TRIES, NULL);"
E 3
.br
.B "	micro("lrand48()", get_n());"
.br
.B "	exit(0);"
.br
.B }
I 3
.br
E 3

.LP
Here is a simple benchmark that measures and reports the bandwidth of 
D 3
.B copy()
E 3
I 3
.BR bcopy :
E 3
.IP
.B "#include ``lmbench.h''"
.br
I 3

.br
.B "#define MB (1024 * 1024)
.br
.B "#define SIZE (8 * MB)"
.br

.br
.B "struct _state {"
.br
.B "	int size;"
.br
.B "	char* a;"
.br
.B "	char* b;"
.br
.B "};"
.br

.br
.B void
.br
.B initialize_bcopy(void* cookie)
.B "{"
.br
.B "	struct _state* state = (struct _state*)cookie;"
.br

.br
.B "	state->a = malloc(state->size);"
.br
.B "	state->b = malloc(state->size);"
.br
.B "	if (state->a == NULL || state->b == NULL)"
.br
.B "		exit(1);"
.br
.B "}"
.br

.br
.B void
.br
.B benchmark_bcopy(iter_t iterations, void* cookie)
.B "{"
.br
.B "	struct _state* state = (struct _state*)cookie;"
.br

.br
.B "	while(iterations-- > 0)"
.br
.B "		bcopy(state->a, state->b, state->size);"
.br
.B "}"
.br

.br
.B void
.br
.B cleanup_bcopy(iter_t iterations, void* cookie)
.B "{"
.br
.B "	struct _state* state = (struct _state*)cookie;"
.br

.br
.B "	free(state->a);"
.br
.B "	free(state->b);"
.br
.B "}"
.br

.br
E 3
.B int
.br
.B "main(int argc, char *argv[])"
.br
D 3
.B {
E 3
I 3
.B "{"
.br
.B "	struct _state state;"
.br

E 3
.br
D 3
.B "	char	*a = malloc(1024 * 1024);"
E 3
I 3
.B "	state.size = SIZE;"
E 3
.br
D 3
.B "	char	*b = malloc(1024 * 1024);"
E 3
I 3
.B "	benchmp(initialize_bcopy, benchmark_bcopy, cleanup_bcopy,"
E 3
.br
D 3
.B "	BENCH(bcopy(a, b, 1024*1024), 0);"
E 3
I 3
.B "		0, 1, 0, TRIES, &state);"
E 3
.br
D 3
.B "	mb(get_n()*1024*1024);"
E 3
I 3
.B "	mb(get_n() * state.size);"
E 3
.br
.B "	exit(0);"
.br
D 3
.B }
E 3
I 3
.B "}"
E 3
.br

I 3
.LP
A slightly more complex version of the
.B bcopy
benchmark might measure bandwidth as a function of memory size and
parallelism.  The main procedure in this case might look something
like this:
.IP
.B int
.br
.B "main(int argc, char *argv[])"
.br
.B "{"
.br
.B "	int	size, par;"
.br
.B "	struct _state state;"
.br

.br
.B "	for (size = 64; size <= SIZE; size <<= 1) {"
.br
.B "		for (par = 1; par < 32; par <<= 1) {"
.br
.B "			state.size = size;"
.br
.B "			benchmp(initialize_bcopy, benchmark_bcopy,"
.br
.B "				cleanup_bcopy, 0, par, 0, TRIES, &state);"
.br
.B "			fprintf(stderr, \%d\\t%d\\t\", size, par);"
.br
.B "			mb(get_n() * state.size);"
.br
.B "		}"
.br
.B "	}"
.br
.B "	exit(0);"
.br
.B "}"
E 3

.SH "VARIABLES"
There are three environment variables that can be used to modify the 
.I lmbench
timing subsystem: ENOUGH, TIMING_O, and LOOP_O.
D 3

E 3
.SH "FUTURES"
Development of 
.I lmbench 
is continuing.  
D 3

E 3
.SH "SEE ALSO"
lmbench(8), timing(3), reporting(3), results(3).
D 3

E 3
.SH "AUTHOR"
Carl Staelin and Larry McVoy
.PP
Comments, suggestions, and bug reports are always welcome.
E 2
I 1
E 1
