h13073
s 00009/00020/00020
d D 1.3 00/10/16 17:13:52 staelin 4 3
c - Update man pages to match current status
cC
cHhpli8.hpli.hpl.hp.com
cK00487
cZ+02:00
e
s 00005/00002/00035
d D 1.2 94/11/25 16:33:12 lm 3 2
c *** empty log message ***
cC
cK03535
e
s 00037/00000/00000
d D 1.1 94/11/18 01:26:35 lm 2 1
c Initial revision
cK57365
e
s 00000/00000/00000
d D 1.0 94/11/18 01:26:34 lm 1 0
cBlm@lm.bitmover.com|ChangeSet|20000131225335|47351|--LMBENCH--
cHlm.bitmover.com
cK03369
cPdoc/mhz.8
cR7e573fe1f46fec90
cV4
cX0x23
cZ-08:00
e
u
U
f e 0
f x 0x23
t
lmbench doc checkin
T
I 2
.\" $Id$
D 4
.TH MHZ 8 "$Date$" "(c)1994 Larry McVoy" "LMBENCH"
E 4
I 4
.TH MHZ 8 "$Date$" "(c)1994-2000 Carl Staelin and Larry McVoy" "LMBENCH"
E 4
.SH NAME
mhz \- calulate processor clock rate
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mhz
.I [-c]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mhz
calculates the processor clock rate and megahertz.  It uses an
unrolled, interlocked loop of adds or shifts.  So far, superscalarness
has been defeated on the tested processors (SuperSPARC, RIOS, Alpha).
.SH OUTPUT
Output format is either just the clock rate as a float (-c) or more verbose
.sp
.ft CB
39.80 Mhz, 25 nanosec clock
.ft
D 4
.SH BUGS
This program is highly compiler sensitive.  GCC seems to almost always do
the right thing.  The right thing is this: the main loop is a series of
dependent integer operations, such as \f(CWa++; a++; a++; ...\fP
The variable is declared as a register integer and it is hoped that the
compiler, \fBwithout optimization since optimizing would remove the whole
loop\fP, will turn that directly into one instruction.
E 4
.LP
D 4
This is not always the case.  If you think that your mhz output is wrong,
check the compiler output by compiling like so \f(CBcc -S mhz.c\fP and
then examining mhz.s.  It should have a bunch of identical instructions
D 3
at the bottom of the file.  All adds or shifts.  If it is loading,
E 3
I 3
at the bottom of the file.  All of the instructions should be
adds or shifts of the same registers, over and over.
If it is loading,
E 3
adding, storing, then it failed to put the variable in a register.
D 3
Try GCC.
E 3
I 3
It probably put the variable on the stack.
Try gcc if this happens.
E 3
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
Funding for the development of
this tool was provided by Sun Microsystems Computer Corporation.
E 4
I 4
.B mhz
is described more completely in ``mhz: Anatomy of a microbenchmark''
in
.I "Proceedings of 1998 USENIX Annual Technical Conference", June 1998.
E 4
.SH "SEE ALSO"
lmbench(8).
I 4
.SH "AUTHOR"
Carl Staelin and Larry McVoy
.PP
Comments, suggestions, and bug reports are always welcome.
E 4
E 2
I 1
E 1
