h59026
s 00039/00000/00000
d D 1.1 00/10/16 17:06:26 staelin 2 1
cC
cF1
cK29698
cO-rw-rw-rw-
e
s 00000/00000/00000
d D 1.0 00/10/16 17:06:26 staelin 1 0
c BitKeeper file /tmp_mnt/usr/WebPaper/users/staelin/src/LMbench/doc/par_ops.8
cBlm@lm.bitmover.com|ChangeSet|20000131225335|47351|--LMBENCH--
cHhpli8.hpli.hpl.hp.com
cK48903
cPdoc/par_ops.8
cR2f019c9d110199c2
cV4
cX0xa1
cZ+02:00
e
u
U
f e 0
f x 0xa1
t
T
I 2
.\" $Id$
.TH PAR_OPS 8 "$Date$" "(c)2000 Carl Staelin and Larry McVoy" "LMBENCH"
.SH NAME
par_ops \- basic CPU operation parallelism
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B par_ops
[
.I "-W <warmups>"
]
[
.I "-N <repetitions>"
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B par_ops
measures the available parallelism for basic CPU operations, such as
integer ADD.  Results are reported as the average operation latency
divided by the minimum average operation latency across all levels of
parallelism. 
.TP
integer bit, add, mul, div, mod operations
maximum parallelism for integer XOR, ADD, MUL, DIV, MOD operations.
.TP
uint64 bit, add, mul, div, mod operations
maximum parallelism for uint64 XOR, ADD, MUL, DIV, MOD operations.
.TP
float add, mul, div operations
maximum parallelism for flot ADD, MUL, DIV operations.
.TP
double add, mul, div operations
maximum parallelism for flot ADD, MUL, DIV operations.
.SH BUGS
This benchmark is highly experimental and may sometimes (frequently?)
give erroneous results.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
lmbench(8), lat_ops(8), par_mem(8).
.SH "AUTHOR"
Carl Staelin and Larry McVoy
.PP
Comments, suggestions, and bug reports are always welcome.
E 2
I 1
E 1
