h37525
s 00011/00015/00077
d D 1.2 00/10/16 17:13:54 staelin 3 2
c - Update man pages to match current status
cC
cHhpli8.hpli.hpl.hp.com
cK48435
cZ+02:00
e
s 00092/00000/00000
d D 1.1 98/05/07 16:00:26 staelin 2 1
c results.3 created on 98/05/07 16:00:26 by staelin@hpisc8.lempel
cC
cK32486
cPdoc/results.3
e
s 00000/00000/00000
d D 1.0 98/05/07 09:00:25 staelin 1 0
cBlm@lm.bitmover.com|ChangeSet|20000131225335|47351|--LMBENCH--
cHhpisc8.lempel
cK06737
cP/users/staelin/src/lmbench/doc/results.3
cR95a37785bda67a80
cV4
cX0x21
cZ-07:00
e
u
U
f e 0
f x 0x21
t
T
I 2
.\"
.\" @(#)results.man	2.0 98/04/24
.\"
.\"   results - lmbench results subsystem
.\"
.\"   Copyright (C) 1998  Carl Staelin and Larry McVoy
.\"   E-mail: staelin@hpl.hp.com
.\"
.TH "lmbench result management" 3 "$Date:$" "(c)1998 Larry McVoy" "LMBENCH"
D 3

E 3
.SH "NAME"
insertinit, insertsort, get_results, set_results, save_median, save_minimum
	\- the lmbench results subsystem
D 3

E 3
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B "#include ``lmbench.h''"
.LP
.B "#define TRIES 11"
.LP
D 3
.B "typedef struct { int N; uint64 u[TRIES], n[TRIES] } result_t;"
E 3
I 3
.B "typedef struct { uint64 u, n } value_t;"
.LP
.B "typedef struct { int N; value_t v[TRIES]; } result_t;"
.LP
.B "int		sizeof_result(int N)"
E 3
.LP
.B "void	insertinit(result_t *r)"
.LP
.B "void	insertsort(uint64 u, uint64 n, result_t *r)"
.LP
D 3
.B "void	get_results(result_t *r)"
E 3
I 3
.B "result_t*	get_results()"
E 3
.LP
.B "void	set_results(result_t *r)"
.LP
.B "void	save_median()"
.LP
.B "void	save_minimum()"
D 3

E 3
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
These routines provide some simple data management functionality.
In most cases, you will not need these routines.
.LP
The current timing results can be accessed using the routines in
timing(3).  The current timing results may be modified using 
.B save_median 
and 
.BR save_minimum .  
D 3

E 3
I 3
.TP
.B "int		sizeof_result(int N)"
returns the number of bytes to allocate for a result_t which contains
.I N
results.
E 3
.TP
.B "void	insertinit(result_t *r)"
initializes the results array.
D 3

E 3
.TP
.B "void	insertsort(uint64 u, uint64 n, result_t *r)"
insert 
.I u 
and 
.I n 
into 
.IR r .  
Results are sorted in decreasing order by 
.IR u/n .
D 3

E 3
.TP
.B "void	get_results(result_t *r)"
get a copy of the current results.
D 3

E 3
.TP
.B "void	set_results(result_t *r)"
save a copy 
.I r 
as the current results.
D 3

E 3
.TP
.B "void	save_median()"
sets the timing results to the median of the current results.
D 3

E 3
.TP
.B "void	save_minimum()"
sets the timing restuls to the minimum of the current results.
D 3

E 3
.LP
Results are sorted in ascending order, so the minimum value is at 
.B TRIES-1
and the maximum value is at
.BR 0 .
D 3

E 3
.SH "FUTURES"
Development of \fIlmbench\fR is continuing.  
D 3

E 3
.SH "SEE ALSO"
lmbench(8), lmbench(3), reporting(3), results(3)
D 3

E 3
.SH "AUTHOR"
Carl Staelin and Larry McVoy
.PP
Comments, suggestions, and bug reports are always welcome.
E 2
I 1
E 1
