h35999
s 00055/00000/00000
d D 1.1 00/10/16 17:06:27 staelin 2 1
cC
cF1
cK07513
cO-rw-rw-rw-
e
s 00000/00000/00000
d D 1.0 00/10/16 17:06:27 staelin 1 0
c BitKeeper file /tmp_mnt/usr/WebPaper/users/staelin/src/LMbench/doc/tlb.8
cBlm@lm.bitmover.com|ChangeSet|20000131225335|47351|--LMBENCH--
cHhpli8.hpli.hpl.hp.com
cK25529
cPdoc/tlb.8
cR2f04cd89110913ea
cV4
cX0xa1
cZ+02:00
e
u
U
f e 0
f x 0xa1
t
T
I 2
.\" $Id$
.TH TLB 8 "$Date$" "(c)2000 Carl Staelin and Larry McVoy" "LMBENCH"
.SH NAME
tlb \- TLB size and latency benchmark
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tlb
[
.I "-L <line size>"
]
[
.I "-M <len>"
]
[
.I "-W <warmups>"
]
[
.I "-N <repetitions>"
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tlb
tries to determine the size, in pages, of the TLB.  
The largest amount of memory it will examine is 
.I len
bytes.  
.LP
.B tlb
compares the memory latency for two different pointer chains.
The two chains occupy the same amount of cache space, but they stress
the memory subsystem differently.  The first chain accesses one word
per page, while the second chain 
randomly jumps through all the lines on a page before jumping to the
next page.  When all of the pointers reside in the cache (which is the
usual case), and all of the pages for the first chain reside in the
TLB, then the average memory latencies should be identical.  Assuming
there is a fixed size TLB, then at some point the number of pages
accessed by the first page will be larger than the TLB.  At this point
the average latency for each memory access for the first chain will be
a cache hit plus some fraction of a TLB miss.  
.LP
Once the TLB boundary is located 
.B tlb
reports the TLB miss latency as the TLB latency for twice as many
pages as the TLB can hold.
.SH BUGS
.B tlb
is an experimental benchmark, but it seems to work well on most
systems.  However, if a processor has a TLB hierarchy
.B tlb
only finds the top level TLB.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
lmbench(8), line(8), cache(8), par_mem(8).
.SH "AUTHOR"
Carl Staelin and Larry McVoy
.PP
Comments, suggestions, and bug reports are always welcome.
E 2
I 1
E 1
